
Marketing, Promotions, and Conversion Tools

1.x CE +
2.x CE+
	Set related products, up-sells, and cross-sells 
	Set promotional pricing for specific stores, categories, customer groups, or products 
	Create flexible coupons for specific stores, customer groups, time periods, products, and categories 
	Export coupon codes for offline distribution, email, newsletters, and more
	Track and report coupon usage 
	Offer free shipping and percent, fixed amount, and buy X get Y free discounts
	Set multi-tier pricing for quantity discounts 
	Get minimum advertised price (MAP) support 
	Bundle products 
	Create customizable category landing pages 
	Show recently viewed and compared products 
	Showcase new items with dynamic new product lists 
	Save unpurchased items for the shopper’s next visit with persistent shopping cart
	Create newsletters and manage their distribution 
	Add Facebook, Twitter, and email links for sharing products

Search Engine Optimization

1.x CE +
2.x CE+
	Automatically generate a Google sitemap 
	Create search engine friendly URLs 
	Take full control of URLs with URL rewrites
	Create metadata for products, categories, and content pages

Site Management

1.x CE+
	Control multiple websites and stores from one administration panel
	Define roles and permissions to control access to administrative features 
	Use the content management system to create and easily edit pages and content blocks
	Design a unique site using100% customizable responsive reference themes included with the application
	Get support for multiple languages and currencies
	Set tax rate based on location, product type, or customer group (i.e., wholesale vs. retailer)
	Use a Web Services API to easily integrate Magento and third-party applications
	Efficiently batch import and export catalog and customer information 	
	Add CAPTCHA functionality to help prevent automated software from attempting fake logins

2.x CE+ 
	Quickly learn to manage and monitor a Magento store with a modern, user-friendly Admin panel
	Customize and save different Admin panel views to efficiently manage products, customers, and orders
        Create new products through a guided online process

Catalog Management

1.x CE +
2.x CE +

    Create simple, configurable (e.g., choose size, color, etc.), bundled, and grouped products 
    Create virtual products 
    Include downloadable/digital products with samples 
    Allow customer-personalized products – upload images and text for monogramming, etc.
    Define unlimited product attributes 
    Create pre-defined attribute sets for quick product creation
    Easily manage inventory with support for back ordered items
    Receive notification when inventory needs to be replenished
    Choose out-of-stock messaging and display options
    Define minimum and maximum product quantities that can be added to the cart
    Mass-assign a value to multiple products for batch updates to products 
    Automatically resize images and include watermarking 
    Use advanced pricing rules and get support for special prices, customer group prices, and tiered pricing 
    Rewrite and redirect search results if customers receive no results 
    Moderate reviews and product tags 

Catalog Browsing

1.x CE +
2.x CE +

    Filter products in categories and search results by price range, brands, color swatches, and other attributes with layered/faceted navigation
    View product category items in grid or list format
    Customize the look and feel of categories and assigned product pages
    View product comparisons with history
    Display a recently viewed products module
    Add breadcrumbs
    Define search synonyms to expand search results 
    Add a popular search terms cloud

Product Browsing

1.x CE +
2.x CE +

    View multiple images per product
    Zoom-in on product images 
    Include swatches to show colors, fabrics, and more
    Set related products, up-sell, and cross-sell
    Display stock availability
    Show pricing tiers
    Display product ratings and reviews
    Include grouped products view
    Include option to add products to a wish list
    Add Facebook, Twitter, and email links for sharing products 

Checkout, Payment and Shipping

1.x CE +

	Show tax and shipping estimates in the shopping cart
	Offer guest and registered user checkout. 
	Save shopping cart to complete the purchase later
	Accept gift messages per order and per item 
	Authorize and charge credit cards upon shipment or checkout 
	Integrate with multiple PayPal gateways and Authorize.net 
	Accept checks and money orders 
	Accept purchase orders 
	Accept bank transfer payments and cash on delivery
	Get SSL security support for orders on both front-end and back-end 
	Get additional payment extensions through Magento Marketplace 
	Integrate shipping with label printing for all major carriers 
	Receive real-time shipping rates from UPS, UPS XML (account rates), FedEx (account rates), USPS, and DHL
	Ship to multiple addresses in one order 
	Specify allowed destination countries based on shipping method 
	Set flat rate shipping fees per order or item 
	Set table rates for weight, price, destination, and number of items
	Provide free shipping 
	Provide on-site order tracking from customer accounts 

2.x CE+
        Integrate with Braintree
	Save credit card method for offline payments [is this implemented?]
	Make purchases with a streamlined checkout designed to minimize data entry
        Auto-fill the shopper’s city and provide shipping options based on their zip code
        View an order summary with product images in checkout
	Registered customers are automatically recognized when they enter their email address in checkout
        Create a customer account with one click on the checkout thank you page
        Securely pass credit card information directly from the client browser to payment gateway
	Qualify for the easiest level of PCI compliance, SAQ-A or SAQ A-EPOffer PayPal Credit as a payment option
	
Order Management

1.x CE +
2.x CE +

	View, edit, create, and fulfill orders and/or invoices from the admin panel
	Create multiple invoices, shipments and credit memos per order to allow for split fulfillment
	Print invoices, packing slips, and shipping labels
	Enable customer service representatives to create orders and customer accounts, and update products and coupons in customers’ shopping carts and wish lists 
	Send email notifications and RSS feeds with order status
	Create custom order status labels to track progress

Customer Accounts

1.x CE +
2.x CE +

	View comprehensive account dashboard 
	Choose default billing and shipping addresses 
	Store unlimited addresses in the address book 
	See order status and history 
	Allow re-ordering from account 
	View recently ordered items 
	Create sharable wish list
	Manage newsletter subscriptions 
	View product reviews submitted 
	View product tags submitted 
	Access downloadable/digital products 

Customer Service

1.x CE +
2.x CE +

	Provide a Contact Us form
	Create and edit orders from the admin panel
	Offer feature-rich customer accounts for managing addresses, creating wish lists, and more
	See order history with status updates
	Track orders from account
	Create customizable emails for order status, account updates, password resets, and more
        International Support
	Receive support for localization, multiple currencies, and local tax rates
	Use accented characters and right-to-left text
	Work with any language. X languages are included  
	Configure list of allowed countries for site registration, shipping, and billing
	Support fixed product taxes, such as WEEE/DEEEin the EU
	Automatically calculate tax for transactions in the EU with VAT-ID validation2 
	Use EU cookie notification to simplify EU Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive compliance 

Mobile Commerce
Responsive Design

1.x CE +
2.x CE +

	Quickly create a site optimized for any device using an included base responsive design reference theme. The responsive theme:
	Can be easily customized for a faster time to market
	Includes major flows, product types, and features
	Reduces long-term maintenance costs and eases site updates
	Offers SEO benefits by using Google’s preferred approach to optimize mobile sites
	Enables customers to read notifications and promotional mailings on mobile devices through responsive emails and newsletters

Analytics and Reporting 

1.x CE +
2.x CE +

	Integrate with Google Universal Analytics 
	Access the following reports through the admin dashboard:
	Sales report 
	Tax report 
	Abandoned shopping cart report 
	Best viewed products report 
	Best purchased products report 
	Low stock report 
	Search terms report 
	Product reviews report 
	Tags report 
	Coupon usage report il
	Total sales invoiced report
	Total sales refunded report

Architecture and Security

2.x CE +

	Build on a modern tech stack that uses popular frameworks and supports industry standards
	Make fine grain customizations and easily add or remove functionality with a modular code base Use stable service contract interfaces to business logic to make site upgrades and customizations easy
	Integrate Magento with third-party applications using efficient web APIs with SOAP and REST support
	Smoothly manage interactions between extensions using plug-ins and dependency injection software design patterns
	Accelerate time-to-market and improve code quality with a fully automated testing framework
	Update code with a standalone installer that checks for prerequisits before starting the installation process
	Feel confident with regular scanning, external penetration testing and bug bounty programs that promote application security 
	Stay informed about security issues through the Magento Security Center and Security Alert mailing list

Layout and Theming

2.x CE +

	Start with the responsive blank theme or the reference Luma store theme to accelerate time-to-market
	Use theme inheritance for creating variations on existing themes for different countries, brands or seasonal campaigns
	Leverage Magento’s UI and pattern library to enable faster and more consistent theme development
	Use LESS CSS preprocessing to speed up development and [Another benefit we can cite?]
	Reduce complexity with clear separation of presentation and business logic

Performance and Scalability

2.x CE +

	Easily integrate with Apache Varnish to cache page content for faster performance
        Use hole punching and Edge Side Includes (ESI) to handle page elements that can’t be cached
	Benefit from faster indexing and incremental index updates for fresher site content and better performance
	Minify JavaScript, CSS and HTML and compress images to reduce file size for faster loading
	Bundle JavaScript files with their dependencies to allow for efficient browser loading
	Cache all JavaScript and CSS on first page viewed to minimize content that must be downloaded for subsequent pages
	Accelerate the rendering of Admin product, customer and order views for faster access to information
	Use included Magento Performance Toolkit to measure and optimize site performance
	Enable large teams of administrative users to manage orders and make scheduled product updates

Dynamic Marketing and Merchandising

1.x EE

Customer Segmentation, Targeted Promotions & Merchandising
Create personalized shopping experiences that boost conversion rates by dynamically displaying content and promotions to specific customers based on properties such as customer address, order history, shopping cart contents, wish list items, and more. You can also target unknown site visitors based on products viewed or items in cart.

Customer Attribute Management 
Further personalize sales and marketing efforts by easily adding new customer attributes such as gender, date of birth, alternate phone numbers, etc. These attributes can be used to create new or more sophisticated customer segments for customized marketing campaigns and content. 

Visual Merchandizer
Boost conversion rates and dramatically cut the time it takes to optimize product category pages with a suite of tools to easily and visually manage product merchandising. Manually position products using a simple drag-and-drop interface, set “hero” products that are always placed at the top of a category, or use automated sorting rules to organize category pages to feature best sellers, highest-margin products, newest products, and more. Also, save time by using Visual Merchandiser to automatically assign products to categories based on pre-set rules, to clone categories, or to create dynamic categories, such as “new products” or “on sale items” based on product attributes.

Dynamic Rule-Based Product Relations 
Set automated rules to determine which products to present as up-sells, cross-sells, and related products to different customer segments. Rules are easily administered through a condition-based tool. This allows you to effortlessly target specific product suggestions to encourage additional purchases and higher average order values.

Solr Search
Magento Enterprise Edition integrates with Solr, a standalone, enterprise-scale search server to provide improved search performance and relevancy. Solr can identify and offer suggestions for customer misspellings, support synonyms and stop words, and use attribute weighting in search results. It can also generate search results for layered navigation.

Automated Email Marketing Reminder 
Increase sales by automating email reminders to customers with abandoned shopping carts and wish lists. Email reminder campaigns can be triggered based on a wide variety of conditions, such as time since a cart or wish list was abandoned, the total cart value, or specific items in the cart. You can also include coupon codes in the email reminders to encourage shoppers to return to your site.

Content Management System
Magento Enterprise Edition includes CMS enhancements to help you create content that distinguishes your store from your competition, increases your visibility to search engines, and supports your customers. The CMS includes a WYSIWYG editor and page hierarchy system to organize content pages and add pagination, navigation, and menus. Create multiple versions of a page, track the revision history of each, and restore previous versions, if needed. You can also set permissions to control who can create and publish content.

Category View and Purchase Permissions per Customer Group (Limited Catalog Access)
Manage the products and categories that can be viewed and purchased by each customer group. B2B businesses use this feature to offer custom sets of products to different accounts.

Increased Customer Loyalty

1.x EE

Rewards Points
Build shopper loyalty through special reward programs. Points can be awarded for purchases, registering for a customer account, newsletter signups, product review submissions, and more. Redemption rules are configurable so you can set caps on the number of reward points that can be accrued and determine when reward points expire.

Store Credits
Issue store credits that can be tied to customer accounts. You can also refund orders for store credit or virtual gift cards to be used toward future purchases.

Multiple Wish Lists
Customers can save products to multiple wish lists and copy or move items between lists. They can make their wish lists public so they’re searchable by anyone, and you can review these lists to learn about their wants and interests.

Gift Registry
Enable customers to create gift registries for special occasions such as new babies, weddings, and birthdays. Automated emails and registry search boxes make it easy for friends and family to access the registry. You can keep track of all items purchased, view the quantities remaining, and send updates to the registry owner when new items are purchased.

Gifting Options 
Allow customers to purchase physical and virtual gift certificates/cards for your store and select gift-wrapping for individual products or complete orders during check out for convenient gift-giving. Your administrators can easily configure applicable pricing and taxes for gift-wrapping options.

Private Sales
Offer exclusive shopping experiences for your most valuable customers with a private or flash sale site. You can control how long private sales last and who is invited to participate, as well as boost interest by allowing customers to invite their friends to join in and by displaying a countdown timer showing time remaining until the sale is over. 

Add to Cart by SKU
Streamline the ordering process, especially for B2B customers, by enabling them to enter a list of SKUs without having to go into product pages. This simplifies large orders, recurring orders, and ordering based on offline catalogs.

Configurable Order Tracking Widget  
Customers can track the status of existing orders and returns without logging in to their account.
 
Powerful Performance and Scalability

1.x EE

Scalable Backend Product Management
Increase productivity with a scalable Magento Admin that can support large teams making simultaneous and immediate product updates.

Support for Alternate Media Storage – CDN and Database
Media files can be stored in a database on a database server or on a content delivery network (CDN), as opposed to storing them on the file system of the web server. This leads to quicker page load times and less activity on the server. 

Order Archiving
Archive orders after a configurable time period to increase store performance and provide efficiencies in store management. Orders are still available to both admin users and customers after they’re archived.


2.x EE

Multiple Master Servers
Scale the database tier of your Magento application by using separate master databases to support Checkout, Order Management, and Product Data. This division allows different functional areas to be isolated from each other and scaled independently to meet varying system load requirements.

Multiple Slave Databases
Magento Enterprise Edition allows each master database to have multiple slave databases to scale read operations.

MySQL Cluster Support
Horizontally scale your Checkout and Order Management databases to ensure high availability through Magento Enterprise Edition’s support for MySQL Cluster, a third-party solution. MySQL Cluster manages data sharding over multiple database instances so multiple master databases can be used to increase your throughput.

 Job Queue Mechanism
Magento Enterprise Edition includes a new job queue framework based on Rabbit MQ that enables asynchronous processing of tasks using separate resources for optimized performance. It is currently used to support deferred stock updates (see below), but is expected to support sending emails, indexing, and order insertions in subsequent releases. Developers can also take advantage of job queuing for extensions and customizations that require highly scalable processing.

Deferred Stock Updates
Make sure you don’t miss any orders during high transaction periods by using the optional deferred stock update configuration. Deferred stock updates for individual products or an entire website take advantage of the new job queue mechanism to allow inventory levels to update asynchronously as orders are placed to improve throughput.


Extensive Management Tools

1.x EE

Return Management Authorization (RMA)
Use RMA to make returns more efficient for your business and your customers alike. Shoppers can request a return directly from your site, and you can process the request and authorize returns, exchanges, refunds, and store credits conveniently in your Admin panel. Once a return is authorized, an email is automatically sent to the shopper with instructions for returning the product and printing the shipping label.  

Advanced Permissions
Create multiple administrative roles to control who can view and edit product prices and promotions. You can also restrict
Admin access to a specific site, or set of sites, and their associated data, if sites for multiple brands or business units are run on the same Magento instance.

Staging, Merging and Rollback of Content
Create a staging site to test new content, categories, product information, promotions, and more. Content can be merged to the live site after approval, either on-demand or according to a schedule.

Google Tag Manager 
Use Google Tag Manager to quickly add tracking tags to a Magento site for audience measurement, personalization, search engine marketing, retargeting, and other marketing programs. You can manage tags on your own with an easy-to-use web interface. Google Tag Manager can also be used to directly transfer data and events to Google Analytics Enhanced Ecommerce and other third-party analytics solutions for deeper business insights.

Support Tool 
Generate a comprehensive system report detailing the Apache version, MySQL settings, extensions in use, database corruption status, and much more so that support teams can access information needed to quickly diagnose and resolve technical issues

Scheduled Import/Export Functionality
Import and export product catalog data either locally or from remote FTP servers. You can configure for error handling, status reporting, and backup.

Logging of Administrator Actions  
Track and review all administrators’ backend activities with the ability to see each action, name of the user who performed it, whether it was a success or failure, and the date. 

Strong Data Encryption, Hashing and Key Management
Magento Enterprise Edition includes strong data encryption based on AES-256 and hashing based on SHA-256. It also offers a more secure admin panel login process with stronger password requirements and account lockout to limit password guessing. You can easily manage and update database keys.

Mobile

1.x EE

Magento Mobile Software Development Kit (SDK) 
Significantly reduce development effort and time to market when creating custom iOS and Android applications using the Magento Mobile SDK. The SDK includes a complete library of resources, an API to connect the app to a Magento store, and support for all key Magento features. It also offers fully functioning iOS and Android sample apps that can be customized to accelerate development.
